# MovieRecommendation
This Repo exposes web APIs for different Movie Recommendations Algorithms
There are basically three types of recommender systems:-
1. Demographic Filtering- They offer generalized recommendations to every user, based on movie popularity and/or genre. The System recommends the same movies to      users with similar demographic features. Since each user is different , this approach is considered to be too simple. The basic idea behind this system is that movies that are more popular and critically acclaimed will have a higher probability of being liked by the average audience.
2. Content Based Filtering- They suggest similar items based on a particular item. This system uses item metadata, such as genre, director, description, actors, etc. for movies, to make these recommendations. The general idea behind these recommender systems is that if a person liked a particular item, he or she will also like an item that is similar to it. In this I am using keywords, Top 3 actors in cast, Director, Genres for content recommendation.  We can also increase the weight of the director , by adding the feature multiple times in the soup(refer code for the same).
3. Collaborative Filtering- This system matches persons with similar interests and provides recommendations based on this matching. Collaborative filters do not require item metadata like its content-based counterparts.

The first dataset contains the following features:-
movie_id - A unique identifier for each movie.
cast - The name of lead and supporting actors.
crew - The name of Director, Editor, Composer, Writer etc.


The second dataset has the following features:-
budget - The budget in which the movie was made.
genre - The genre of the movie, Action, Comedy ,Thriller etc.
homepage - A link to the homepage of the movie.
id - This is infact the movie_id as in the first dataset.
keywords - The keywords or tags related to the movie.
original_language - The language in which the movie was made.
original_title - The title of the movie before translation or adaptation.
overview - A brief description of the movie.
popularity - A numeric quantity specifying the movie popularity.
production_companies - The production house of the movie.
production_countries - The country in which it was produced.
release_date - The date on which it was released.
revenue - The worldwide revenue generated by the movie.
runtime - The running time of the movie in minutes.
status - "Released" or "Rumored".
tagline - Movie's tagline.
title - Title of the movie.
vote_average - average ratings the movie recieved.
vote_count - the count of votes recieved.



Functions of get_recommendations Function defined in contentRecommendation
We are now in a good position to define our recommendation function. These are the following steps we'll follow :-
Get the index of the movie given its title.
Get the list of cosine similarity scores for that particular movie with all movies. Convert it into a list of tuples where the first element is its position and the second is the similarity score.
Sort the aforementioned list of tuples based on the similarity scores; that is, the second element.
Get the top 10 elements of this list. Ignore the first element as it refers to self (the movie most similar to a particular movie is the movie itself).
Return the titles corresponding to the indices of the top elements.
